mptcp.dev v2 (#2)
multipath-tcp/mptcp.dev: setup.md

titles_max_depth: 2
---

This setup page is specific to the Multipath TCP support in the Linux kernel.

## Kernel version

MPTCP support has debuted with the version 5.6. It has continued to evolve, and
still evolving today. See the [ChangeLog](https://github.com/multipath-tcp/mptcp_net-next/wiki/#changelog)
for more details.

For this reason, we do recommend you to use a [recent kernel](https://www.kernel.org/),
ideally the last stable version, or the last "long term support" (LTS) one.

Note that the RedHat/CentOS kernels have a good support of MPTCP, where new
features and bug fixes are regularly backported.

## Enable MPTCP

{: .info }
Most recent GNU/Linux distributions support MPTCP by default. It is very
likely MPTCP is already enabled, and you can skip this section.

### Linux kernel build configuration

The Linux kernel being used has to be compiled with `CONFIG_MPTCP=y` and
`CONFIG_MPTCP_IPV6=y` options, and ideally `CONFIG_INET_MPTCP_DIAG=y/m`. If not,
please report this to your GNU/Linux distribution: MPTCP in the kernel is light,
and enabled in most main Linux distributions (Debian, Ubuntu, RedHat, Fedora,
etc.), and other specific ones like Raspbian.

{: .note}

> Note that `CONFIG_MPTCP_IPV6=y` requires `IPV6` to be inlined (`=y`), and not as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `CONFIG_MPTCP_IPV6=y` requires `IPV6` to be inlined (`=y`), and not built as
```

> a module (`=m`), but having `IPV6` inlined is recommended by NetDev maintainers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a module (`=m`). Having `IPV6` inlined is recommended by NetDev maintainers
```

  written in GO, the libC is not used, so `mptcpize` does not work. Since GoLang
  1.21, it is possible to force MPTCP by setting the environment variable
  `GODEBUG=multipathtcp=1`:

  ```bash
GODEBUG=multipathtcp=1 <command>
  ```

- [eBPF](https://ebpf.io/what-is-ebpf/): since kernel v6.6, it is possible to
  change the socket being created per cGroup. A small eBPF program -- e.g.
  [mptcpify](https://elixir.bootlin.com/linux/latest/source/tools/testing/selftests/bpf/progs/mptcpify.c) --
  can be used, see [this example](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/bpf/bpf-next.git/commit/?id=ddba122428a7).

- [SystemTap](https://sourceware.org/systemtap/) can also be used to modify the
  `socket` system call. See this [documentation](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/configuring_and_managing_networking/getting-started-with-multipath-tcp_configuring-and-managing-networking#preparing-rhel-to-enable-mptcp-support_getting-started-with-multipath-tcp)
  for more details about that.

## Using multiple IP addresses

To be able to use multiple IP addresses on a host to create multiple *subflows*

> (paths), the MPTCP path-manager needs to know what IP addresses can be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(paths), the MPTCP path-manager needs to know which IP addresses can be used.
```

{: .info}
> A server having only one network interface does not need to configure anything

> > else: the client will create additional subflows it wants to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> else: the client will create additional subflows as needed.
```

>

> > Yet, it might be interesting to announce the additional IPv4/6 addresses: some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It might be interesting to announce additional IPv4/6 addresses. Some
```

> > clients might be connected to some networks having only an IPv4 or an IPv6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> clients might be connected to networks having only an IPv4 or an IPv6
```

> > address; plus IPv4 and IPv6 packets are often routed differently through some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> address. Also consider that IPv4 and IPv6 packets are often routed differently through some
```

> networks, resulting in different latencies.

### Path-Manager configuration

> With the default in-kernel MPTCP path-manager, the additional IP addresses need

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the default in-kernel MPTCP path-manager, additional IP addresses need
```

to be specified.

This configuration can be automated with tools like
[Network Manager](https://networkmanager.dev) -- in command lines, look for
`mptcp-flags` in the [settings](https://networkmanager.dev/docs/api/latest/nm-settings-nmcli.html) --

> and [mptcpd](https://mptcpd.mptcp.dev), but here, the focus is done on the manual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and [mptcpd](https://mptcpd.mptcp.dev). Here, the focus is on manual
```

> configuration, using [`ip mptcp`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/ip-mptcp.8.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration, using the [`ip mptcp`](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/ip-mptcp.8.html)
```

command.

{: .note}
With the userspace MPTCP path-manager -- `sysctl net.mptcp.pm_type=0` -- the
configuration has to be done on the userspace daemon side.

#### Endpoints

MPTCP endpoints can be configured with

```sh
ip mptcp endpoint add <IP address> dev <interface> [ signal | subflow ] [ backup ] [ fullmesh ]
```

{: .warning}
It is important to specify the network interface linked to the address by adding
`dev <interface>`. If not, the routing will probably not be done properly, and
will require manual configuration, see below:
[Manual Routing Configuration](#manual-routing-configuration).

One of the following flags needs to be set:
- `signal`: The endpoint will be announced to each peer via an MPTCP `ADD_ADDR`

>   sub-option. Typically, what a server would do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  sub-option. Typically, a server would be responsible for this.
```

- `subflow`: The endpoint will be used to create an additional subflow using

>   the given source IP address. Typically, what a client would do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the given source IP address. A client would typically do this.
```

Optionally, the following flags can be set:

> - `backup`: Subflows created from this endpoint instructs the peers to only send

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `backup`: Subflows created from this endpoint instruct the peers to only send
```
